concrete5 translation tools
===========================

Some useful tools to manage concrete5 translations.

## Setup
You have to create the file `configuration/credentials.php` (you may use the `sample-credentials.php` as a template), where you have to store the Transifex username and password.
You can also customize other parameters by creating the file `configuration/customize.php`: see the `configuration/sample-customize.php` file to know the available options.

## `core2pot.php`
Generates .pot files from the concrete5 development branches and moves those .pot files to a location that should be made accessible by Transifex.
This script should be launched on a regular basis, so that Transifex can be kept up-to-date with the latest version of the translatable strings (the .pot files generated by this script).

## `transifex2github.php`
Downloads core translations from Transifex and updates (if necessary) a repository on GitHub containing the .po and .mo files.
This script should be launched on a regular basis, so that the GitHub repository can effectively reflect the Transifex changes, and final users have a place where they can download the latest .mo files.

## `transifex-add-version.php`
Clones .po translations from a Transifex resource to another Transifex resource.
This script should be launched manually when a new concrete5 version is released.
First of all you have to the .pot of the released concrete5 version (with [i18n.php](https://github.com/mlocati/concrete5-build)).

The you have two options:
- automatic creation of the new Transifex resource
	- create the new Transifex resource for this concrete5 version with: `php transifex-add-version.php --source=core --destination=core-<NewVersion> --pot=<PotLocation>`
- manual creation of the new Transifex resource
	- manually create the new Transifex resource from within the Transifex website
	- copy the translations to the new resource with: `php transifex-add-version.php --source=core --destination=core-<NewVersion>`

## `release-translations.php`
Fetches all the core translations from Transifex and updates a local directory with .mo files and some stats.
This data is used by the page http://www.concrete5.org/developers/translate/

## `transifex-compare-resources.php`
Compares two Transifex resources.

## `packages-translations.php`
Downloads the packages translations from Transifex and updates (if necessary) a repository on GitHub containing .mo files and some stats.

